---
layout: post
title: Github
---

Involution frequently develops software as part of a client engagement. This might be code for an internal project, a prototype for a client, or production code for a client. **Using [version control](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Revision_control) is a studio requirement for any project involving software development**

## Before Creating a Repository
There's a few things to consider before creating a rpository. Primarily, based on information from early meetings and interactions with the client, we need to determine whether the code lives in one of our repositories or needs to be in theirs.

### Client Hosted Version Control
If you are working with a client, ask the client if they prefer that we use their version control system (VCS). A client may need us to work with their VCS due to the proprietary nature of their software, privacyobligations to their clients or members, or myriad other reasons. If this is the case, follow up with the client contact on how to gain access to this system, any documentation they may have on their VCS or process, and possibly a good time to get a walkthrough of their process. In this case, the client will need to create a repository for us to work with.

### Invo Hosted Version Control
If the project you are working on is internal or the client does not request that we use their version control system, we will use a git repository hosted at Github. This should be our preferred way of working, so we can offer a consistent experience from client to client and project to project.

Some other useful questions to ask up front include:

* Who will need access to the repository? Invo staff only? The client? Other third parties?
* Does the upcoming engagement extend existing code? Do we have a repository that might be appropriate already?
* Does the project leverage code (dependencies) from other repositories? (They need not be ours.)

## Creating a Repository on Github
Github has some [good documentation](https://help.github.com/articles/create-a-repo/) on how to create a repository. Here are a few things to note.

(If you're using [Github for Mac](https://mac.github.com/) you can use `CMD+N` and proceed as outlined at the URL above)

### Private vs Public
Because of Involution's commitment to open source software, we default repositories to be public whenever possible. When working on an internal project, quickly double-check with the powers that be whether it is okay to make the repository public. **Always check with the client before creating a public repository on their behalf.**

### Open Source Licenses
If the repository is public, make sure to include a License. We generally use [Apache 2.0](http://choosealicense.com/licenses/apache-2.0/), but check out [this site from Github](http://choosealicense.com/) for some help.

### Naming Conventions
When naming a repository on Github, make the name [Pascal case](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CamelCase) (camel case with the first letter capitalized). 

#### Client Repository Names
The repository name should start with the client's name and contain their product name (when relevant) as well as the project. Below are some examples:

* **CodeRyteHSCUI**: The UI code for the HSC product created by CodeRyte.
* **DataXuCampaignCreationPrototype**:The campaign creation prototype code for DataXu. In this case, they don't have a separate product name so it is not included. CampaignCreationPrototype describes the project.

#### Internal Project Repository Names
For projects that are owned by Invo, it is not necessary to include `Invo` in the repository title. In this case, give the repository a name which describes the software as a product. For example:

* **BatchIDMLGenerator**: A tool, developed by Involution, which generates batches of IDML files.
* **HealthAxioms**: The Health Axioms.
* **InvoLive**: In this case, the word Invo is included because we call the product "InvoLive" and not just "Live".

### Access 

## Git Workflow
### Branching and Merging
We generally model our branching and merging strategy for projects off of the model outlined in [this article](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/). Unless you have a strong reason to deviate (i.e. a client prefers a different workflow or you aren't using git), you should probably use this workflow.

### Releasing Source Code
**Whenever you release source code to a client, or push it to a production server, you should tag that release in git**. It is tedious to tag releases, but it is almost always a good idea. If there is some sort of additional work done as part of a "release" (i.e. adding `.mobileprovision` files or packaging an iOS application as an `IPA`), use the release functionality of Github to upload those extra dependencies.
