---
layout: post
title: Recipes
---

##Lunch

### Black Eyed Pea BBQ Stew 
(Eric Benoit)

* 1 cup rutabaga
* 2 stalks celery
* 1 carrot
* pinch sea salt
* 2 15 oz cans black-eyed peas
* 1/2 cup barbecue sauce
* 1 cup frozen green peas
* salt & pepper

In a skillet with a lid, simmer veggies with a pinch of sea salt and 1/2 cup water until just tender. Add the black-eyed peas and barbecue sauce to a pot and simmer, covered, for about 5 minutes. Add water as necessary if it starts to stick, and stir occasionally. Stir in green peas and season with sea salt and pepper as needed.


## Juice

### Green Juice

_1 bottle:_

* 5 ribs celery
* 1 cucumber
* 1 green apple
* 1 cup kale
* 3 romaine leaves
* 1 handful of spinach
* 1 oz lemon juice

JUICE!

(Blueprint juice #1,3)


### PAM
_1 bottle:_

* 1/3 pineapple
* 1 green apple
* small handful of mint

JUICE!

(Blueprint juice #2)


### Spicy Lemonade

_1 bottle:_

* 14 oz filtered water
* 2 juiced lemons
* 1 TB agave nectar
* dash cayenne

MIX!

(Blueprint juice #4)


### CAB

_1 bottle:_

* 1 large green apple
* 2 beets
* 5 large carrots
* 1 1/2 TB ginger
* 1/2 oz lemon juice

JUICE!

(Blueprint juice #5)


### Nut Milk

_1 bottle:_

* unsalted cashews or almonds
* 12 oz filtered water
* 1 TB agave nectar
* 1 tsp cinnamon
* 1 tsp vanilla

Juice or blend!

(Bedtime Blueprint juice)


### Green Juice 2

_1 bottle:_

* 1 large handful of kale
* 1 large handful of spinach
* 1 average sized kiwi, peeled
* 1-2 Granny Smith apples, whole
* 1 banana (blended, not juiced)

In a juicer, juice the kale, spinach, kiwi, and apple(s). Add the mixture to a blender with the banana and puree. The banana needs to go in the blender because it’s too mushy for a juicer.


### Pineapple-Apple-Cucumber Juice

_1 bottle:_

* 1 half of a pineapple, skin and leaves removed
* 2 red apples
* 1 half of one large cucumber

JUICE!


### Beet-Apple-Carrot Juice

_1 bottle:_

* 1 washed and peeled mid-sized beet 
* 1 large carrot peeled
* 2 red apples

JUICE!


### Sweet & Spicy Lemonade

_1 bottle:_

* 1 large lemon
* 1 tsp honey
* pinch of cayenne pepper
* water

Fill the bottom of your empty bottle with a bit of hot water, and add honey and cayenne pepper. Swirl it around until the honey dissolves, then add the lemon juice and fill the rest of the bottle with cold filtered water. Shake and drink.


### Banana-Cashew Milk

_1 bottle:_

* 1 cup raw cashews
* 1 banana
* 1 cup water
* pinch of cinnamon
* pinch of cardamom
* pinch of nutmeg

Soak the cashews in water for 2 hours. After the cashews have soacked, throw all the ingredients into a blender and puree for 1 minute.

##Bakery

### Pain de Mie
(David Zhu)

(This recipe is kinda exact in its ingredient ratios. It's made best with a scale.)

INGREDIENTS
* 520g  Bread Flour     
* 340g  Water       
* 42g   Sugar       
* 6g    Instant yeast   
* 8g    Salt
* 520g  butter (softened)

DIRECTIONS
* Mix everything except butter
* Knead until smooth
* Add soft butter (cut into cubes)
* Fridge dough ~24 hrs (cold rise)
* Squeeze out big bubbles

(This part is more flexible. Feel free to shape accordingly. Removing bubbles is important though.)

* Split into 6 pieces (each one is 155 g)
* Set for 20 minutes
* Make each dough long and roll it together (1 cycle)
* Set for another 20 minutes
* Repeat step 6 (2 cycle)
* Place doughs in bread mold
* 365 F Bake for 40 minutes
* Spread with butter on darker parts

##Dessert

### Flour-less Chocolate Cake
(Sara Berndt)

* 12 ounces bittersweet chocolate chips or semi-sweet chocolate, roughly chopped
* 2 sticks butter, cut into chunks
* 1 1/4 cup sugar
* 6 eggs
* 1 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
* 1 tablespoon milk
* Splash of pure vanilla extract

Preheat the oven to 375. Melt the butter and chocolate in a saucepan on the stove slowly adding the sugar to the melted mixture until smooth. In another bowl crack the 6 eggs adding coco powder and milk and stir in the chocolate when melted. Stir until smooth, no lumps. Add mix to a greased shallow dish and bake for 35 minutes or until “toothpick test” comes out clean. Wait until cake is completely cooled to lift out of dish. Add fruit or powdered sugar for garnish.